Story Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain a Horror film called "Session 9."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Danvers State Hospital, a psychiatric institution
that has remained empty for more than a decade,
is being turned into a town hall. The
government invites several companies
to submit their proposals to clean up the
asbestos from the building. One of the companies
interested in submitting a bid is the Hazmat
Elimination Company, owned by Gordon Flemming.
Gordon is stressed with his newborn baby Emma,
and it is evident from the tired look on his
face when he shows up with his associate,
Phil, to survey the hospital. Phil notices his
weariness, so he tells Gordon that he's there
for him if he needs help. Soon, the security
guard at the facility approaches them and lets
them know that Bill Griggs, who will lead the
tour at the hospital, will be arriving soon.
As they drive to the complex, Gordon tells Phil
that they're not the first company that showed
up to survey the hospital. A company called
American Yankees has made quite a low bid with
a promise to do the job quickly. Phil points
out that Griggs likes the bids fast and low,
so Phil asks Gordon if he could do the
negotiations, but Gordon says he'll do it himself.
As they pass by the hospital, Phil
is dazzled by the building’s facade.
Griggs starts the tour by pointing out that the
layout of the building, which was finished in
1871, looks like a bat, with one wing for
female patients and the other for males.
Griggs couldn't tear down the place because it
is listed in the national historic register.
Griggs leads them to the dining area and tells
them that it will be turned into the municipal
archives. Phil and Gordon point out that the
tiles in the room are loaded with asbestos,
so they have to be removed. Griggs tells them
that the other companies did not mention that
to him. Griggs then takes the two men to
the female wing, known as Ward C, but they
have to go through Ward A, where the most extreme
patients were once confined. While Gordon stares
at the chair across the hall, he hears an eerie
voice call out to him. They continue the tour
down the tunnel once used as a fallout shelter,
where Gordon notices ducts that need some work.
After the tour, Phil tells Griggs that the
whole building can be cleaned up of asbestos
within three weeks, but Gordon insists
that it can be done within two weeks.
Phil comes across a room filled with
magazine cut-outs pasted to the walls
and calls the attention of the two other men.
Griggs discloses that it was a room used for
art therapy and creative expression to boost
the patients' self-esteem. Gordon stares at
the pictures on the wall, wondering what went
wrong with the patient confined to that room.
Upon exiting the building, Phil realizes that he
left his bag inside, so he goes back to retrieve
it. While waiting for Phil, Gordon
tells Griggs that he wants to match
the bid made by the American Yankees
because he really needs the job.
He assures Griggs that the
clean-up can be done within a week.
Later, Gordon looks at photos of his family while
he's sitting in his car outside their house.
When he looks outside, he sees his wife, Wendy,
taking their baby inside their home, greeting
him with a faint smile. Soon, he gets out of the
vehicle carrying his bag and a bundle of flowers.
His wife tells him that the flowers are
lovely and asks him what the occasion is.
Soon, Gordon and his employees start working
to remove the asbestos at the hospital.
Gordon's nephew, Jeff, tries to operate the
floor removal machine, but the vehicle suddenly
shuts down, so Mike, another member of the
crew, tells Jeff to check the breaker box.
Jeff reluctantly tells Mike that he can't do it
because he has nyctophobia, a fear of the dark.
Mike goes down to the basement to plug in
the machine, but he notices a light in the
storage room, so he goes inside to investigate. He
notices a box marked "evidence" on top of a shelf,
so he gets curious and opens it with a box cutter.
During their break, their friend, Hank,
sarcastically tells Gordon that they got
a perfect gig because they're working in an
insane asylum. Phil tells him to be grateful,
pointing out that they'll make a lot
of money if they finish the gig early.
He discloses that they'll get a $10,000
bonus if they finish the job within the week.
When the guard brings them the keys to the gates,
Jeff asks him why the hospital was shut down. The
guard explains that several mental institutions
were closed during the '80s due to budget cuts.
Mike points out that it wasn't just the
budget cuts that caused the shutdown.
He recounts that there was a scandal involving
a patient named Patricia Willard in 1984.
Patricia was committed to the hospital
in the 1970s due to manic depression,
but when she underwent Repressed Memory Therapy,
she recalled the horrible things that happened to
her. Her father forced himself on her three times
a week when she was 10. On top of that, he also
brought her into the woods, where her parents and
grandparents performed horrific rituals wearing
black robes. They would make her watch while they
cut out the heart of a baby and drink the blood.
Mike tells them that the phenomenon, known as the
Satanic Ritual Abuse Syndrome, happened across the
U.S. in the '80s. Patricia was about to sue her
own parents, but she abruptly dropped the lawsuit.
Her parents have apparently discovered that a
physical examination on Patricia the previous
year indicated that she was a virgin. Mike
discloses that the parents countersued
and won the case because the memories
gleaned from the therapy never happened.
While carrying equipment to the building,
Phil notices that Gordon has a limp. When
he asks about it, Gordon tells him that he pulled
a muscle. Phil is worried about losing the bonus,
so he suggests replacing someone on the team
with Craig Mcmanus, who works American Yankees.
He assures Gordon that Craig will leave
the company when he hears about the bonus.
He points out that Craig is more experienced
than Hank, and he cares more about the job.
Gordon is displeased with Phil's suggestion
and refuses to let Hank go given their history,
but he promises Phil that he'll fire
Hank once he becomes a liability.
After the rest of the crew leaves, Mike stays
behind to listen to an audiotape he found inside
the evidence box. He learns that the tape is a
counseling session of a patient named Mary Hobbes,
who seems to be suffering from a
dissociative identity disorder.
Mary sobs uncontrollably while she
tells the doctor that she misses Peter.
The doctor then asks her to recount what happened
22 years ago on Christmas night in Lowell.
Mary tells him that nothing happened, but the
doctor insists that something did transpire that
night, and they're doing the sessions to help her
remember. Mary grows agitated from the session,
with the doctor noting that Mary is putting
her fingers inside her mouth to cope.
Suddenly, Mike hears a higher-pitched voice asking
the doctor if he wants to share a doll. The doctor
addresses her as Princess, which is listed as
one of the alternate personalities of Mary.
The doctor asks Princess what happened that
Christmas night, so Princess tells him that
they received presents. Mary got a china doll
while Peter received a big knife. While their
parents were asleep, they went upstairs to
play hide and seek. When the doctor asks
who's playing the game, Princess tells
him that she was joined by Mary, Peter,
and Billy. When the doctor asks about Simon, she
tells him that she doesn't know anyone by that
name. Princess tells the doctor that she's tired,
so he tells her that he'd like to talk to Billy.
However, Princess tells him that Billy is
asleep. Meanwhile, Gordon parks in front of
his house and sits by the car waiting. He winces
in pain when his pants brush up against his leg.
On Tuesday, Gordon suddenly hears a
voice as he stares out the window,
but he gets startled by Phil banging on the
ceiling. Jeff asks Mike about the tension
between Phil and Hank the previous day, so Mike
explains that Hank stole Phil's girlfriend, Amy.
He warns him not to get on Phil's bad side because
Phil will give him the most exhausting tasks.
Down in the tunnel, Hank comes across an antique
coin on the floor while he's tagging the ducts.
As he walks further, he finds another coin
marked 1883, so he looks around and sees another
coin sticking out from a brick. He removes the
brick with a palette knife, and a pile of coins
pours out of the wall along with a few other
items. As he gleefully inspects his discovery,
Phil calls him on the radio, telling him to bring
his gear and work with Jeff and Mike after lunch.
During lunchtime, Mike listens to the audiotapes
in the basement instead of eating with the rest
of the crew. This time, the doctor meets Billy and
asks him where the alters reside in Mary's body.
Billy tells him that Princess is in
the tongue because she talks too much,
while he lives in the eyes because he can see
everything. When the doctor asks about Simon,
he doesn't get a response. When Mike
goes out to have lunch with the crew,
Gordon scolds him for not being there on time.
Gordon calls his wife on the phone, but she hangs
up on him before he could say what he wanted.
While looking through the window, he sees Phil
talking with two young men by the generator.
He observes Phil suspiciously as
the two men walk away from him.
That night, Hank drives back to collect
the coins hidden behind the wall.
While inspecting the items, he hears a noise
close by even though he's wearing headphones.
He soon continues retrieving items from the
wall and finds a sharp lobotomy tool called
the orbitoclast. He puts coins and other items
in the bag and starts looking for the exit.
While walking around the corridor, he hears a
noise behind him while he's inspecting a bottle
of peanut butter he found on the floor.
He nervously shines the light at the end
of the corridor but sees nothing. As soon as he
walks away, he hears the noise again. This time,
he sees a dark figure emerging,
so he runs toward the exit.
Hank calms down after seeing birds flying around
the corridors, thinking that he just imagined
the figure he saw earlier. He gathers his breath
as he slowly walks toward the exit, but when he
reaches the corner, someone intercepts him. The
following day, Hank does not show up for work.
Gordon calls him on the phone, but he couldn't
even get the answering machine. Mike suggests
calling Amy, so Phil asks Gordon to hand over the
phone to him. After the phone call, Phil tells the
crew that Hank went to Miami to Casino School
after bragging about finding his meal ticket.
Phil asks Mike to call Craig to see if he still
wants to work with them. He tells Gordon that
Hank's disappearance is a blessing, but Gordon
suspects that something terrible has happened.
He asks Phil what he talked about with
the two men he met the previous day.
Phil walks away feeling insulted that Gordon
is questioning his performance and integrity,
but Gordon grabs him, telling Phil not to walk
away from him. Phil taunts Gordon to hit him,
but Gordon leaves so he could calm
himself down. While sitting on the stairs,
he notices his fingers bleeding and
wonders how he got those injuries.
Outside, Phil vents to Mike, asserting that Gordon
has been losing gigs because he's too stressed by
the newborn baby. He surmises that Gordon didn't
really want to have a baby, and it's compromising
his ability to do his job. Mike soon gets tired
of listening to Phil, so he goes down to the
basement to look at Mary's file. Gordon tries
calling his wife, asking her to forgive him, but
he doesn't get a response. Jeff arrives and tells
Gordon that he's grateful that he gave him a job.
Jeff promises that he will work hard, so he
advises his uncle not to stress himself out.
Mike listens to more tapes of Mary's
counseling sessions and hears Mary
crying because her family wouldn't pay her
a visit. The doctor asks her how she got
the scars on her chest, so she explains
that she got them from a bike accident.
He proceeds to inquire about her alters, but
Mary claims she doesn't know any of them.
Mary tells the doctor that she's tired and wants
to go back to her room, so Billy takes over.
When the doctor asks Billy what happened in
Lowell, he contends that the doctor already knows
exactly what transpired that night. The doctor
stresses that Mary needs to know what happened,
but Billy strongly objects. The doctor then
instructs Billy to wake up Simon because
he might want to recount what occurred that
Christmas night, but Billy tells him he's scared.
While getting ready to go home, Gordon asks
Phil the stupidest thing he's done in his life.
Phil says that he regrets introducing Amy to Hank.
Gordon suddenly blurts out that he hit his wife.
He explains that he brought flowers
and champagne home last Friday to
celebrate getting the job from Griggs.
When he approached to kiss Wendy,
she turned around and accidentally poured
boiling water on his leg, so he slapped her.
He regrets hitting Wendy over an accident
and assures Phil that he loves her.
He reveals that he's been staying at a motel
since that night and asks Phil not to let the
other crew members know about it. Phil tells
Gordon that the young men he was talking to the
other day were graffiti artists, and he told
him never to set foot in the hospital again.
That night, Gordon hears the
voice again while he's sleeping
in the van. He recalls bringing home
flowers to his wife, but this time,
the voice urges him to "Do it," and
he hears his wife scream. Suddenly,
he wakes up from the horrible dream in his van
parked just outside the hospital. He takes a
bottle of hydrogen peroxide and pours it on
his burnt leg, causing him to yell out in pain.
In the morning, Phil lights up a funny cigarette
and takes a puff, but he puts it away when he sees
Gordon's van arriving. He tells Gordon that
Craig will start working for them the next
day. When he asks Gordon if he's okay, Gordon
tearfully tells him that he wants to go home.
While Jeff operates the tile remover,
the machine abruptly turns off,
so Mike tells Jeff that he's going to check
the breakers. However, Phil comes in and
tells Mike to take a break with him. He tells
Jeff to go downstairs despite his nyctophobia.
Phil tells Mike that they need to deal with
Gordon because he's becoming a liability.
Mike contends that Phil is just being paranoid,
so Phil divulges that Gordon struck his wife.
Unbeknownst to Phil, Gordon is downstairs
overhearing their conversation.
Phil tells Mike that he'll take over
because he doesn't want to lose the bonus.
When Gordon approaches them, Mike tells
him that they're just talking about Jeff.
Meanwhile, Jeff goes down to the basement to
check the circuit breakers. After plugging in
the machine, he sees Hank by the window on the
stairwell, but he's unresponsive when Jeff talks
to him. Jeff tells him that he's in trouble with
Phil and Gordon, but Hank just asks him, "What
are you doing here?" Hank repeats the question
when Jeff asks him if he scored big on a lottery
scratch-off ticket. When Jeff sees blood on Hank's
finger, he leaves Hank so he could tell the crew.
Gordon notes that it's lunchtime,
so he tells Phil to place an order.
Phil, however, tells Mike that they should flip
a coin. After throwing it in the air, Mike calls
heads, but it lands on tails. Gordon looks at the
coin they used and looks suspiciously at Phil.
Before Gordon could say anything, Jeff
arrives and tells them that he found Hank.
However, Phil refuses to believe
him, saying Hank's already in Miami.
When the crew goes to the staircase, Hank is
nowhere to be seen, but Gordon notices a coin on
the floor, hinting that someone was there. Phil
insists that Hank is in Miami, noting that they
all heard it over the phone when he talked with
Amy. Gordon, however, points out that Phil was the
only one who heard it. Gordon asks Mike to give
him a phone so that he could talk to Amy himself.
As they continue to argue, they hear footsteps
above them. Gordon tells Mike and Jeff to go
downstairs to make sure they don't lose Hank,
but Phil tells Gordon that he's going with Jeff.
Jeff tells Phil that he heard the footsteps
going through the corridors of Ward A,
but Phil tells him that it's safer down the
tunnels. Mike tells Gordon that he's heading
to the tunnels because he heard something down
there. Before Gordon could object, Mike is long
gone. Instead of searching for Hank, Mike goes
to the storage room to listen to Mary's tapes.
Phil goes further down the tunnels and asks
Jeff to wait for him. Before Phil could leave,
Jeff mentions that Hank had blood on
his hand when he was at the staircase.
In the audiotape for session 9, the doctor
asks Billy if he could recount what happened
on Christmas eve. Billy recalls that
Mary was looking at her new doll,
and she's trying to find Peter in
the dark while playing hide and seek.
Billy refuses to talk about the incident any
further, saying Mary doesn't know what Simon
did to Peter. Mike skips through the tape after
hearing Billy refuse to reveal what Simon did.
While Jeff waits for Phil to come back, the lights
suddenly go dim because the fuel for the generator
is running low. Meanwhile, Gordon hears the
mysterious voice while searching for Hank.
Down in the tunnels, Phil sees Hank's clothes
scattered on the floor and hears him repeating,
"What are you doing here?" Elsewhere in the
tunnels, Jeff reaches the narrow corridors of
the tunnel and sees the lights go out behind
him, so he runs away screaming in terror.
Gordon tells Phil over the C.B. radio that
he thinks he found Hank, but Phil sees Hank
in front of him sitting in the dark wearing
nothing but his underwear and sunglasses.
Outside the building, Mike puts fuel
in the generator and turns it back on.
When the tape starts playing again, a deep male
voice greets the doctor. When the doctor asks the
alter, Simon, what happened on Christmas night,
he tells the doctor to use his imagination.
Simon recounts that Peter had been naughty because
he scared Mary. Peter crept up behind her and
scared her, causing her to fall on her doll. Simon
recalls that the accident injured Mary real bad,
noting that Mary needed help,
so he introduced himself to her.
Meanwhile, Gordon has reached room #444, where
Mary was once confined. Simon urged Mary to
cut Peter up with his own knife. Afterward, he
feared that Mary's parents would get mad at her,
so he told her to cut them up as well. Simon
then tells the doctor that Mary wanted to do it.
Phil soon finds Gordon in Mary's room,
staring at the pictures of Wendy and Emma.
Jeff runs outside crying hysterically because
of his nyctophobia. Soon, he reaches the van and
grabs the C.B. radio to tell Gordon that he's by
the van. When an unseen crew member arrives, Jeff
explains that he freaked out because the lights
went out, but then the crew member attacks him.
On Friday, Phil asks Gordon
to come back to the building,
saying he found the one responsible
for mysterious incidents. Meanwhile,
Craig arrives at the facility and marvels
at the beauty of the building's facade.
While walking around the Ward, Gordon is shocked
to see Hank lying on the floor. Phil tells him
that Hank has become a liability, adding that
Hank brought it upon himself. When Gordon
accuses Phil of killing Hank, Phil tells him
to wake up and take a good look at Hank's body.
Gordon removes Hank's glasses and learns that he
is still alive, but he has been stabbed with the
orbitoclast in the eye. He tells Hank to hold on
and promises to get help. Phil hints that Gordon
shouldn't tell anyone about Hank because if people
find out about him, they will discover the others.
Gordon suspects that Phil hired the two men to
kill Hank, but Phil insists that Gordon's asleep
and needs to wake up. When Gordon yells that he's
wide awake, Craig arrives and calls out to him.
Gordon turns around, but when he looks back at
Phil, he is no longer there. When Craig approaches
him, Gordon holds him down with a headlock
and stabs him in the eye with the orbitoclast.
In the audiotape, the doctor asks Simon why he
urged Mary to kill her own parents, so Simon
explains that Mary allowed him to do it. Gordon
starts recalling that he attacked Hank at night
while he was wandering around in the tunnels,
disoriented. Simon tells the doctor that all his
other hosts always allow him to use them to murder
people. Soon, Gordon finds the dead bodies of the
other crew members lying on the floor. He recalls
killing them one by one without the victims
even suspecting him, except for Phil, who was
killed when he accused Gordon of attacking Hank.
As he stares out into space, he hears Phil's
voice telling him to wake up and remember.
Soon, he recalls going home bringing roses
to his wife. When she accidentally spills
boiling water on his leg, he slaps her.
But Gordon didn't stop there. He keeps
attacking his wife and stabs her to death while
hearing Simon's voice urging him to "Do it."
Later on, Gordon calls his wife with
an empty cellphone case, asking for
forgiveness and telling her that he wants to
go home and hold his baby. On the audiotape,
the doctor asks Simon where he lives, so he
discloses that he resides in the weak and wounded.